K8s guide (#1165)
micronaut-projects/micronaut-guides: guides/micronaut-k8s/micronaut-k8s.adoc

common:header-top.adoc[]

== Getting Started

In this guide, we will create three microservices, build containerized versions and deploy them with https://kubernetes.io/[Kubernetes]. We will use Kubernetes Service discovery and Distributed configuration to wire up our microservices.

____
Kubernetes is a portable, extensible, open source platform for managing containerized workloads and services, that facilitates both declarative configuration and automation. It has a large, rapidly growing ecosystem. Kubernetes services, support, and tools are widely available.
____

You will discover how the Micronaut framework eases Kubernetes integration.

external:micronaut-k8s/requirements.adoc[]

common:completesolution.adoc[]

== Writing the Apps

Let's describe the microservices you will build through the guide.

> * `users` - This microservice contains all customers data that can place orders on items, also a new customer can be created. Microservice requires Basic authentication to access it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `users` - This microservice contains customers data that can place orders on items, also a new customer can be created. Microservice requires Basic authentication to access it.
```
This would be better renamed as `customers`. Why is authentication required? It seems to add unnecessary complexity to the guide. I don't think any of the other guides include it.

> * `orders` - This microservice contains all created orders by customers and available items that customers can use to place new item orders. Also in this microservice a new item orders can be created. Microservice requires Basic authentication to access it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `orders` - This microservice contains all orders that customers have created as well as available items that customers can order. Also this microservice enables the creation of new orders. Microservice requires Basic authentication to access it.
```
Again, why is auth required?

* `api` - It's a gateway to both `orders` and `users` services. It combines results from both services and checks data when customers create a new item order.

> Initially we will hard-code the addresses where the different services are in the `api` service. Additionally, we will hard-code credentials (username and password) into every microservice configuration that are required for Basic authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initially we will hard-code the addresses of the `orders` and `users` services in the `api` service. Additionally, we will hard-code credentials (username and password) into every microservice configuration that are required for Basic authentication.
```

> In the second part of this guide we will use a Kubernetes discovery service and Kubernetes config maps to dynamically resolve client urls and get authentication credentials. Services register when they start up and resolve placeholders inside microservice configuration by calling Kubernetes API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the second part of this guide we will use a Kubernetes discovery service and Kubernetes configuration maps to dynamically resolve the URLs of the `orders` and `users` microservices  and get authentication credentials. The microservices call the Kubernetes API to register when they start up and then resolve placeholders inside the microservices' configurations.
```

common:annotationprocessors.adoc[]

=== Users Microservice

Create the `users` microservice using the https://docs.micronaut.io/latest/guide/#cli[Micronaut Command Line Interface] or with https://launch.micronaut.io[Micronaut Launch].

[source,bash]
----
mn @users:cli-command@ --features=discovery-kubernetes,management,security,serialization-jackson,kubernetes example.micronaut.users --build=@build@ --lang=@lang@
----

common:build-lang-arguments.adoc[]

If you use Micronaut Launch, select Micronaut Application as application type and add the `discovery-kubernetes`, `management`, `security`, `serialization-jackson` and `kubernetes` features.

> The previous command creates a directory named `users` and a Micronaut application inside it with default package `example.micronaut`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous command creates a directory named _users_ containing Micronaut application with a package named `example.micronaut`.
```

diffLink:[app=users]

> Create package with name `controllers` and create `UsersController` class to handle incoming HTTP requests into the `users` microservice:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a package named `controllers` and create a `UsersController` class to handle incoming HTTP requests for the `users` microservice:
```

source:controllers/UsersController[app=users]
callout:controller[number=1,arg0=/users]
<2> Annotate with `io.micronaut.security.Secured` to configure secured access. The `isAuthenticated()` expression will allow access only to authenticated users.
callout:post[number=3,arg0=add,arg1=/users]
callout:get[number=4,arg0=findById,arg1=/users/{id}]
callout:get[number=5,arg0=getUsers,arg1=/users]

Create package with name `models` where we will put our data beans.

:exclude-for-languages:groovy,kotlin

> The previous `UsersController` controller uses `User` object to represent customer. Create the `User` record

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous `UsersController` controller uses a `User` object to represent customer. Create the `User` record
```

:exclude-for-languages:

:exclude-for-languages:java
The previous `UsersController` controller uses `User` object to represent customer. Create the `User` class
:exclude-for-languages:

source:models/User[app=users]
callout:serdeable[1]
<2> ID will be generated by application.

Create package with name `auth` where you will check basic authentication credentials.

> The `Credentials` class will load and store credentials (username and password) from configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Credentials` class will load and store credentials (username and password) from a configuration file.
```

source:auth/Credentials[app=users]
callout:configuration-properties[1]

> The `CredentialsChecker` class, as name says, it will check if provided credentials inside request's Authorization header are the same with ones that are stored inside `Credentials` class that we created above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `CredentialsChecker` class, as the name suggests, will check if the provided credentials inside the HTTP request's `Authorization` header are the same as those that are stored inside the `Credentials` class that we created above.
```

source:auth/CredentialsChecker[app=users]
callout:singleton[1]

{empty} +

==== Write tests to verify application logic

Create the `UsersClient` Micronaut HTTP inline client for testing:

test:UsersClient[app=users]
callout:client[1]

> `HealthTest` checks if there is `/health` endpoint exposed that is needed for service discovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`HealthTest` checks that there is `/health` endpoint that is required for service discovery.
```

test:HealthTest[app=users]
callout:micronaut-test[1]
callout:http-client[2]

`UsersControllerTest` tests endpoints inside the `UserController`.

test:UsersControllerTest[app=users]
callout:micronaut-test[1]

Edit `application.yml`

resource:application.yml[app=users]
<1> Placeholder for username that will be populated by Kubernetes.
<2> Placeholder for password that will be populated by Kubernetes.

> Create a `bootstrap.yml` file in the `resources` directory to https://docs.micronaut.io/latest/guide/#bootstrap[enable distributed configuration].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `bootstrap.yml` file in the _resources_ directory to https://docs.micronaut.io/latest/guide/#bootstrap[enable distributed configuration].
```

Add the following:

resource:bootstrap.yml[app=users]
<1> Set `microanut.config-client.enabled: true` which is used to read and resolve configuration from distributed sources.

> <2> Set `kubernetes.client.secrets.enabled: true` enables Kubernetes secrets as distributed source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Set `kubernetes.client.secrets.enabled: true` to enable Kubernetes secrets as distributed source.
```

<3> Set `kubernetes.client.secrets.use-api: true` use Kubernetes API to fetch configuration.

common:default-dev-environment-application.adoc[]

source:Application[app=users]

common:default-dev-environment-application-dev-yaml.adoc[]

resource:application-dev.yml[app=users]
<1> Configure the application to listen on port 8081.

> <2> Hardcoded username for development environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Hardcoded username for the development environment.
```

> <3> Hardcoded password for development environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Hardcoded password for the development environment.
```

Create a file named `bootstrap-dev.yml` to disable distributed configuration in the dev environment:

resource:bootstrap-dev.yml[app=users]

> <1> Disable Kubernetes secrets client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Disable the Kubernetes secrets client.
```

> Create a file named `application-test.yml` which is used in the test environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a file named `application-test.yml` for use in the test environment:
```

testResource:application-test.yml[app=users]

> <1> Hardcoded username for test environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Hardcoded username for the test environment.
```

> <2> Hardcoded password for test environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Hardcoded password for the test environment.
```

Run the unit test:

:exclude-for-build:maven

[source, bash]
.users
----
./gradlew test
----

:exclude-for-build:

:exclude-for-build:gradle

[source, bash]
.users
----
./mvnw test
----

:exclude-for-build:

{empty} +

==== Running the application

> Run `users` microservice:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the `users` microservice:
```

:exclude-for-build:maven

[source, bash]
.users
----
./gradlew run
----

:exclude-for-build:

:exclude-for-build:gradle

[source, bash]

> .orders

Reviewer: I think this should be users

----
./mvnw mn:run
----

:exclude-for-build:

[source]
----
14:28:34.034 [main] INFO  io.micronaut.runtime.Micronaut - Startup completed in 499ms. Server Running: http://localhost:8081
----

=== Orders Microservice

Create the `orders` microservice using the https://docs.micronaut.io/latest/guide/#cli[Micronaut Command Line Interface] or with https://launch.micronaut.io[Micronaut Launch].

[source,bash]
----
mn @orders:cli-command@ --features=discovery-kubernetes,management,security,serialization-jackson,kubernetes example.micronaut.orders --build=@build@ --lang=@lang@
----

common:build-lang-arguments.adoc[]

If you use Micronaut Launch, select Micronaut Application as application type and add the `discovery-kubernetes`, `management`, `security`, `serialization-jackson` and `kubernetes` features.

> The previous command creates a directory named `orders` and a Micronaut application inside it with default package `example.micronaut`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous command creates a directory named _orders_ containing a Micronaut application with a package named `example.micronaut`.
```

diffLink:[app=orders]

Create package with name `controllers` and create `OrdersController` and `ItemsController` classes to handle incoming HTTP requests into the `orders` microservice:

source:controllers/OrdersController[app=orders]
callout:controller[number=1,arg0=/orders]
<2> Annotate with `io.micronaut.security.Secured` to configure secured access. The `isAuthenticated()` expression will allow access only to authenticated users.
callout:get[number=3,arg0=findById,arg1=/orders/{id}]
callout:get[number=4,arg0=getOrders,arg1=/orders]
callout:post[number=5,arg0=createOrder,arg1=/orders]

source:controllers/ItemsController[app=orders]
callout:controller[number=1,arg0=/items]
<2> Annotate with `io.micronaut.security.Secured` to configure secured access. The `isAuthenticated()` expression will allow access only to authenticated users.
callout:get[number=3,arg0=findById,arg1=/items/{id}]
callout:get[number=4,arg0=getItems,arg1=/items]

> Create package with name `models` where you will put your data beans.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create package named `models` where you will put your data beans.
```

:exclude-for-languages:groovy,kotlin

> The previous `OrdersController` and `ItemsController` controller uses `Order` and `Item`  objects to represent customer orders. Create the `Order` record:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `OrdersController` and `ItemsController` classes uses `Order` and `Item`  objects to represent customer orders. Create the `Order` record:
```

:exclude-for-languages:

:exclude-for-languages:java
The previous `OrdersController` and `ItemsController` controller uses `Order` and `Item`  objects to represent customer orders. Create the `Order` class:
:exclude-for-languages:

source:models/Order[app=orders]
callout:serdeable[1]
<2> ID will be generated by application.

> <3> List of Item class will be populated by server and will be only visible in sever responses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> The `List` of `Item` class will be populated by the server and will be only visible in sever responses.
```

<4> List of item_ids will be provided by client requests.

:exclude-for-languages:groovy,kotlin
Create the `Item` record:
:exclude-for-languages:

:exclude-for-languages:java
Create the `Item` class:
:exclude-for-languages:

source:models/Item[app=orders]
callout:serdeable[1]

> Create package with name `auth` where you will check basic authentication credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create package named `auth` where you will check basic authentication credentials.
```

The `Credentials` class will load and store credentials (username and password) from configuration.

source:auth/Credentials[app=orders]
callout:configuration-properties[1]

> The `CredentialsChecker` class, as name says, it will check if provided credentials inside request's Authorization header are the same with ones that are stored inside `Credentials` class that we created above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `CredentialsChecker` class, as name suggests, will check if provided credentials inside an HTTP request's `Authorization` header are the same as those that are stored inside `Credentials` class that we created above.
```

source:auth/CredentialsChecker[app=orders]
callout:singleton[1]

{empty} +

==== Write tests to verify application logic

Create the `OrderItemClient` Micronaut HTTP inline client for testing:

test:OrderItemClient[app=orders]
callout:client[1]

> `HealthTest` checks if there is `/health` endpoint exposed that is needed for service discovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`HealthTest` checks that there is `/health` endpoint that is required for service discovery.
```

test:HealthTest[app=orders]
callout:micronaut-test[1]
callout:http-client[2]

`ItemsControllerTest` tests endpoints inside the `ItemController`.

test:ItemsControllerTest[app=orders]
callout:micronaut-test[1]

`OrdersControllerTest` tests endpoints inside the `OrdersController`.

test:OrdersControllerTest[app=orders]
callout:micronaut-test[1]

> Edit `application.yml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit _application.yml_
```

resource:application.yml[app=orders]
<1> Placeholder for username that will be populated by Kubernetes.
<2> Placeholder for password that will be populated by Kubernetes.

> Create a `bootstrap.yml` file in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a _bootstrap.yml_ file in
```

the `resources` directory to https://docs.micronaut.io/latest/guide/#bootstrap[enable distributed configuration].
Add the following:

resource:bootstrap.yml[app=orders]

> <1> Set `microanut.config-client.enabled: true` which is used to read and resolve configuration from distributed sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Set `microanut.config-client.enabled: true` to read and resolve configuration from distributed sources.
```

> <2> Set `kubernetes.client.secrets.enabled: true` enables Kubernetes secrets as distributed source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Set `kubernetes.client.secrets.enabled: true` to enable Kubernetes secrets as distributed source.
```

> <3> Set `kubernetes.client.secrets.use-api: true` use Kubernetes API to fetch configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Set `kubernetes.client.secrets.use-api: true` to use Kubernetes API to fetch configuration.
```

common:default-dev-environment-application.adoc[]
source:Application[app=orders]

common:default-dev-environment-application-dev-yaml.adoc[]

resource:application-dev.yml[app=orders]
<1> Configure the application to listen on port 8082.
<2> Hardcoded username for development environment.
<3> Hardcoded password for development environment.

Create a file named `bootstrap-dev.yml` to disable distributed configuration in the dev environment:

resource:bootstrap-dev.yml[app=orders]
<1> Disable Kubernetes secrets client.

> Create a file named `application-test.yml` which is used in the test environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a file named _application-test.yml_ to be used in the test environment:
```

testResource:application-test.yml[app=orders]
<1> Hardcoded username for development environment.
<2> Hardcoded password for development environment.

Run the unit test:

:exclude-for-build:maven

[source, bash]
.orders
----
./gradlew test
----

:exclude-for-build:

:exclude-for-build:gradle

[source, bash]
.orders
----
./mvnw test
----

:exclude-for-build:

{empty} +

==== Running the application

> Run `orders` microservice:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the `orders` microservice:
```

:exclude-for-build:maven

[source, bash]
.orders
----
./gradlew run
----

:exclude-for-build:

:exclude-for-build:gradle

[source, bash]
.orders
----
./mvnw mn:run
----

:exclude-for-build:

[source]
----
14:28:34.034 [main] INFO  io.micronaut.runtime.Micronaut - Startup completed in 499ms. Server Running: http://localhost:8082
----

=== API (Gateway) Microservice

Create the `api` microservice using the https://docs.micronaut.io/latest/guide/#cli[Micronaut Command Line Interface] or with https://launch.micronaut.io[Micronaut Launch].

[source,bash]
----
mn @api:cli-command@ --features=discovery-kubernetes,management,kubernetes,serialization-jackson,mockito example.micronaut.api --build=@build@ --lang=@lang@
----

common:build-lang-arguments.adoc[]

If you use Micronaut Launch, select Micronaut Application as application type and add the `discovery-kubernetes`, `management`, `kubernetes`, `serialization-jackson` and `mockito` features.

> The previous command creates a directory named `api` and a Micronaut application inside it with default package `example.micronaut`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous command creates a directory named _api_ containing a Micronaut application with a package named `example.micronaut`.
```

diffLink:[app=api]

> Create package with name `controllers` and create `GatewayController` class to handle incoming HTTP requests into the `api` microservice:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a package named `controllers` and create a `GatewayController` class to handle incoming HTTP requests to the `api` microservice:
```

source:controllers/GatewayController[app=api]
callout:controller[number=1,arg0=/api]
callout:executes-on[2]
callout:get[number=3,arg0=getUserById,arg1=/users/{id}]
callout:get[number=4,arg0=getOrdersById,arg1=/orders/{id}]
callout:get[number=5,arg0=getItemsById,arg1=/items/{id}]
callout:get[number=6,arg0=getUsers,arg1=/users]
callout:get[number=7,arg0=getItems,arg1=/items]
callout:get[number=8,arg0=getOrders,arg1=/orders]
callout:post[number=9,arg0=createUser,arg1=/users]
callout:post[number=10,arg0=createOrder,arg1=/orders]

Create package with name `models` where you will put your data beans.

:exclude-for-languages:groovy,kotlin

> The previous `GatewayController` and `ItemsController` controller uses `User`, `Order` and `Item` to represent customer orders. Create the `User` record:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `GatewayController` and `ItemsController` classes use `User`, `Order`, and `Item` to represent customer orders. Create the `User` record:
```

:exclude-for-languages:

:exclude-for-languages:java
The previous `GatewayController` and `ItemsController` controller uses `User`, `Order` and `Item` to represent customer orders. Create the `User` class:
:exclude-for-languages:

source:models/User[app=api]
callout:serdeable[1]

:exclude-for-languages:groovy,kotlin
Create the `Order` record:
:exclude-for-languages:

:exclude-for-languages:java
Create the `Order` class:
:exclude-for-languages:

source:models/Order[app=api]
callout:serdeable[1]

:exclude-for-languages:groovy,kotlin
Create the `Item` record:
:exclude-for-languages:

:exclude-for-languages:java
Create the `Item` class:
:exclude-for-languages:

source:models/Item[app=api]
callout:serdeable[1]

> Create package with name `clients` where you will put HTTP Clients that will call `users` and `orders` services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a package named `clients` where you will put the HTTP Clients to call the `users` and `orders` microservices.
```

> Create `UserClient` for `users` service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `UserClient` for the `users` microservice.
```

source:clients/UsersClient[app=api]
callout:client[1]

> Create `OrdersClient` for `orders` service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an `OrdersClient` for the `orders` microservice.
```

source:clients/OrdersClient[app=api]
callout:client[1]

Create package with name `auth` where we will check basic authentication credentials.

> Create `Credentials` class that will load username and password from configuration that will be needed for comparison.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `Credentials` class that will load the username and password from configuration that will be needed for comparison.
```

source:auth/Credentials[app=api]
callout:configuration-properties[1]

> Create `AuthClientFilter` class that is a client filter and will be applied to every client. It adds basic authentication header with credentials that are stored in `Credentials` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an `AuthClientFilter` class that is a client filter applied to every client. It adds basic authentication header with credentials that are stored in the `Credentials` class.
```

source:auth/AuthClientFilter[app=api]

> Create `ErrorExceptionHandler` in `example.micronaut` package. The `ErrorExceptionHandler` will propagate errors from `orders` and `users` microservices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a class named `ErrorExceptionHandler` in the `example.micronaut` package. `ErrorExceptionHandler` will propagate errors from the `orders` and `users` microservices.
```

source:ErrorExceptionHandler[app=api]
callout:singleton[1]

{empty} +

==== Write tests to verify application logic

> Create the `GatewayClient` Micronaut HTTP inline client for testing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `GatewayClient` Micronaut HTTP inline client for testing:
```

test:GatewayClient[app=api]
callout:client[1]

`HealthTest` checks if there is `/health` endpoint exposed that is needed for service discovery.

test:HealthTest[app=api]
callout:micronaut-test[1]
callout:http-client[2]

`GatewayControllerTest` tests endpoints inside the `GatewayController`.

test:GatewayControllerTest[app=api]
callout:micronaut-test[1]

> Edit `application.yml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit _application.yml_
```

resource:application.yml[app=api]
<1> Placeholder for username that will be populated by Kubernetes.
<2> Placeholder for password that will be populated by Kubernetes.

> Create a `bootstrap.yml` file in the `resources` directory to https://docs.micronaut.io/latest/guide/#bootstrap[enable distributed configuration].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a _bootstrap.yml_ file in the _resources_ directory to https://docs.micronaut.io/latest/guide/#bootstrap[enable distributed configuration].
```

Add the following:

resource:bootstrap.yml[app=api]

> <1> Set `microanut.config-client.enabled: true` which is used to read and resolve configuration from distributed sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Set `microanut.config-client.enabled: true` to read and resolve configuration from distributed sources.
```

<2> Set `kubernetes.client.secrets.enabled: true` enables Kubernetes secrets as distributed source.

> <3> Set `kubernetes.client.secrets.use-api: true` use Kubernetes API to fetch configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Set `kubernetes.client.secrets.use-api: true` to use the  Kubernetes API to fetch configuration.
```

common:default-dev-environment-application.adoc[]

source:Application[app=api]

common:default-dev-environment-application-dev-yaml.adoc[]

resource:application-dev.yml[app=api]
<1> Hardcoded username for development environment.
<2> Hardcoded password for development environment.

> Create a file named `bootstrap-dev.yml` to disable distributed configuration in the dev environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a file named _bootstrap-dev.yml_ to disable distributed configuration in the dev environment:
```

resource:bootstrap-dev.yml[app=api]

> <1> Url of the `users` microservice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> URL of the `users` microservice
```

> <2> Url of the `orders` microservice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> URL of the `orders` microservice
```

<3> Disable Kubernetes secrets client.

> Create a file named `application-test.yml` which is used in the test environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a file named _application-test.yml_ to be used in the test environment:
```

testResource:application-test.yml[app=api]
<1> Hardcoded username for development environment.
<2> Hardcoded password for development environment.

Run the unit test:

:exclude-for-build:maven

[source, bash]
.users
----
./gradlew test
----

:exclude-for-build:

:exclude-for-build:gradle

[source, bash]
.users
----
./mvnw test
----

:exclude-for-build:

{empty} +

==== Running the application

Run `api` microservice:

:exclude-for-build:maven

[source, bash]

> .orders

Reviewer: Should this be `api`?

----
./gradlew run
----

:exclude-for-build:

:exclude-for-build:gradle

[source, bash]

> .orders

Reviewer: Should this be `api`?

----
./mvnw mn:run
----

:exclude-for-build:

[source]
----
14:28:34.034 [main] INFO  io.micronaut.runtime.Micronaut - Startup completed in 499ms. Server Running: http://localhost:8080
----

=== Test integration between applications

> Run a cURL command to create user through api:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run a cURL command to create a new user via the `api` microservice:
```

[source,bash]
----
curl -X "POST" "http://localhost:8080/api/users" -H 'Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8' -d '{ "first_name": "Nemanja", "last_name": "Mikic", "username": "nmikic" }'
----

[source, json]
----
{"id":1,"username":"nmikic","first_name":"Nemanja","last_name":"Mikic"}
----

> Run a cURL command to create order through api:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run a cURL command to a new order via the `api` microservice:
```

[source,bash]
----
curl -X "POST" "http://localhost:8080/api/orders" -H 'Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8' -d '{ "user_id": 1, "item_ids": [1,2] }'
----

[source, json]
----
{"id":1,"user":{"first_name":"Nemanja","last_name":"Mikic","id":1,"username":"nmikic"},"items":[{"id":1,"name":"Banana","price":1.5},{"id":2,"name":"Kiwi","price":2.5}],"total":4.0}
----

> Run a cURL to list created orders:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run a cURL command to list created orders:
```

[source,bash]
----
curl "http://localhost:8080/api/orders" -H 'Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8'
----

[source, json]
----
[{"id":1,"user":{"first_name":"Nemanja","last_name":"Mikic","id":1,"username":"nmikic"},"items":[{"id":1,"name":"Banana","price":1.5},{"id":2,"name":"Kiwi","price":2.5}],"total":4.0}]
----

> We can try to place an order with user that doesn't exist (with id 100). Run a cURL command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can try to place an order for a user who doesn't exist (with id 100). Run a cURL command:
```

[source,bash]
----
curl -X "POST" "$API_URL/api/orders" -H 'Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8' -d '{ "user_id": 100, "item_ids": [1,2] }'
----

[source, json]
----
{"message":"Bad Request","_links":{"self":[{"href":"/api/orders","templated":false}]},"_embedded":{"errors":[{"message":"User with id 100 doesn't exist"}]}}
----

== Kubernetes and the Micronaut framework

> In this chapter we will first create necessary kubernetes resources for our services that will make them work properly then we will configure, build docker image and deploy each of microservices that we created on the local Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this chapter we will first create the necessary Kubernetes resources for our microservices that will make them work properly then we will configure, build container images and deploy each of the microservices that we created on the local Kubernetes cluster.
```

> Create `auth.yml` file that will service role for microservices and have secret configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a filed named _auth.yml_  that will service role for microservices that have secret configurations.
```

[source, yaml]
.auth.yml
----
include::{sourceDir}/micronaut-k8s/@sourceDir@/auth.yml[]
----

> <1> We crate a service account with name `micronaut-service`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> We create a service account named `micronaut-service`.
```

> <2> We create a role with name `micronaut_service_role`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> We create a role named `micronaut_service_role`.
```

> <3> We bind  `micronaut_service_role` role to the `micronaut-service` service account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> We bind  the `micronaut_service_role` role to the `micronaut-service` service account.
```

> <4> We create a secret with name `micronaut_service_role`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> We create a secret named `micronaut_service_role`.
```

> <5> Base64 value of username secret that will be used by ours microservices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<5> Base64 value of the username secret that will be used by the microservices.
```

> <6> Base64 value of password secret that will be used by ours microservices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<6> Base64 value of the password secret that will be used by the microservices.
```

> Run next command to create described resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the next command to create the resources described above:
```

[source,bash]
----
kubectl create -f auth.yml
----

> Before we start deploying each of service, we have to make sure that Docker daemon is configured to use Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we start deploying each service, ensure that Docker daemon is configured to use Kubernetes.
```

> if you are using https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/[Minikube] execute next comand to switch docker deamon to use Minikube.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/[Minikube] run the next command to switch the docker daemon to use Minikube.
```

[source,bash]
----
eval $(minikube docker-env)
----

=== Users Microservice

> The next command will build docker image of `users` service with image name `users`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next command will build a container image of the `users` service with named `users`.
```

:exclude-for-build:gradle

[source,bash]
----
./mvnw package -Dpackaging=docker
----
:exclude-for-build:

:exclude-for-build:maven

[source,bash]
----
./gradlew dockerBuild
----
:exclude-for-build:

> Edit `k8s.yml` inside `users` service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit the file named _k8s.yml_ inside the `users` microservice.
```

[source, yaml]
./users/k8s.yml
----
include::{sourceDir}/micronaut-k8s/@sourceDir@/users/k8s.yml[]
----

> <1> Service name that we created in auth.yaml.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The service name that we created in the _auth.yaml_ file.
```

> <2> Name of the image that deployment use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> The name of the container image for deployment.
```

<3> The imagePullPolicy is set to Never. We will always use local one that we built in previous step.
<4> Name of a service, required for service discovery.
<5> Micronaut default port on which application is running.

> Run next command to create described resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the next command to create the resources described above:
```

[source,bash]
----
kubectl create -f users/k8s.yml
----

[source,text]
----
deployment.apps/users created
service/users created
----

=== Orders Microservice

> The next command will build docker image of `orders` service with image name `orders`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next command will build a container image of the `orders` service named `orders`.
```

:exclude-for-build:gradle

[source,bash]
----
./mvnw package -Dpackaging=docker
----
:exclude-for-build:

:exclude-for-build:maven

[source,bash]
----
./gradlew dockerBuild
----
:exclude-for-build:

> Edit `k8s.yml` inside `orders` service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit the file named _k8s.yml_ inside the `orders` microservice.
```

[source, yaml]
./orders/k8s.yml
----
include::{sourceDir}/micronaut-k8s/@sourceDir@/orders/k8s.yml[]
----
<1> Service name that we created in auth.yaml.

> <2> Name of the image that deployment use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> The name of the container image for deployment.
```

<3> The imagePullPolicy is set to Never. We will always use local one that we built in previous step.
<4> Name of a service, required for service discovery.
<5> Micronaut default port on which application is running.

> Run next command to create described resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the next command to create the resources described above:
```

[source,bash]
----
kubectl create -f orders/k8s.yml
----

[source,text]
----
deployment.apps/orders created
service/orders created
----

=== API (Gateway) Microservice

> The next command will build docker image of `api` service with image name `api`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next command will build a container image of the `api` service named `api`.
```

:exclude-for-build:gradle

[source,bash]
----
./mvnw package -Dpackaging=docker
----
:exclude-for-build:

:exclude-for-build:maven

[source,bash]
----
./gradlew dockerBuild
----
:exclude-for-build:

> Edit `k8s.yml` inside `api` service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit the file named _k8s.yml_ inside the `api` microservice.
```

[source, yaml]
./api/k8s.yml
----
include::{sourceDir}/micronaut-k8s/@sourceDir@/api/k8s.yml[]
----

> <1> Service name that we created in auth.yaml.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The service name that we created in the _auth.yaml_ file.
```

> <2> Name of the image that deployment use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> The name of the container image for deployment.
```

<3> The imagePullPolicy is set to Never. We will always use local one that we built in previous step.
<4> Name of a service, required for service discovery.
<5> Micronaut default port on which application is running.

> Run next command to create described resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the next command to create the resources described above:
```

[source,bash]
----
kubectl create -f api/k8s.yml
----

[source,text]
----
deployment.apps/api created
service/api created
----

=== Test integration between applications

> Run next command to check status of created pods and make sure that all have status "Running":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the next command to check the status of the pods you created and make sure that all have the status "Running":
```

[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pods
----

[source,text]
----
NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
api-774fd667b9-dmws4      1/1     Running   0          24s
orders-74ff4fcbc4-dnfbw   1/1     Running   0          19s
users-9f46dd7c6-vs8z7     1/1     Running   0          13s
----

> Run next command to check status of created services:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the next command to check the status of the microservices:
```

[source,bash]
----
kubectl get services
----

[source,text]
----
NAME         TYPE           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
api          LoadBalancer   10.102.7.238    <pending>     8080:30049/TCP   24h
kubernetes   ClusterIP      10.96.0.1       <none>        443/TCP          26d
orders       NodePort       10.99.172.89    <none>        8080:31811/TCP   24h
users        NodePort       10.109.219.86   <none>        8080:32409/TCP   24h
----

> NOTE: By default, EXTERNAL-IP of LoadBalancer service inside Minikube will be in <pending> state. If you want to assign an external ip you have to run `minikube tunnel` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: By default, the EXTERNAL-IP address  of the LoadBalancer service inside Minikube will be in the <pending> state. If you want to assign an external ip you have to run the `minikube tunnel` command.
```

> Run next command to get url of api service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the next command to retrieve the URL of the `api` microservice:
```

[source,bash]
----
export API_URL=$(minikube service api --url)
----

> Run a cURL command to create user through api:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run a cURL command to create a user via the `api` service:
```

[source,bash]
----
curl -X "POST" "$API_URL/api/users" -H 'Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8' -d '{ "first_name": "Nemanja", "last_name": "Mikic", "username": "nmikic" }'
----

[source, json]
----
{"id":1,"username":"nmikic","first_name":"Nemanja","last_name":"Mikic"}
----

> Run a cURL command to create order through api:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run a cURL command to create an order via the `api` microservice:
```

[source,bash]
----
curl -X "POST" "$API_URL/api/orders" -H 'Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8' -d '{ "user_id": 1, "item_ids": [1,2] }'
----

[source, json]
----
{"id":1,"user":{"first_name":"Nemanja","last_name":"Mikic","id":1,"username":"nmikic"},"items":[{"id":1,"name":"Banana","price":1.5},{"id":2,"name":"Kiwi","price":2.5}],"total":4.0}
----

> Run a cURL to list created orders:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run a cURL command to list the orders:
```

[source,bash]
----
curl "$API_URL/api/orders" -H 'Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8'
----

[source, json]
----
[{"id":1,"user":{"first_name":"Nemanja","last_name":"Mikic","id":1,"username":"nmikic"},"items":[{"id":1,"name":"Banana","price":1.5},{"id":2,"name":"Kiwi","price":2.5}],"total":4.0}]
----

> We can try to place an order with user that doesn't exist (with id 100). Run a cURL command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can try to place an order with a user who doesn't exist (with id 100). Run a cURL command:
```
